my daughter now six is old enough to
talk about veganism they're not really
old enough to understand it in the space
of a few years I saw how her mother
tried to influence her to become more
anti vegan and he structured her to
refuse vegan food when she was with me
etc but yeah we're not that different no
we've actually got some very similar
views okay he but what changes on how is
how we act on our views okay so you guys
know I keep it real ously honest about a
lot of things that vegans maybe do not
like to be so honest about and you know
one of them is that I'm not an expert
about vegan health me neither broth mean
Ava what go on but I have absolutely no
false confidence about the adequacy of
my diet I just ate a meal that consisted
of almost nothing but green vegetables
in white rice and I can honestly say if
I wasn't taking a vitamin pill
I think it would be nutritionally
inadequate I think I would be damaging
my health I feel you Barbra
fail you son affiliate I feel cold as
hell right now and I asked other people
at my school I asked the teachers I went
to locker room like is it cold in here
and I'm not asking to make small talk
I'm actually worried look hick it feels
cold to me I actually don't know if my
health is falling apart because my
ridiculously can tie it say we can agree
on the same thing I'm just not too sure
on whether I'm willing to sacrifice my
health for something I really need to do
some more research on they then cut both
tendons in the hind legs and it reacted
very badly to that cutting probably the
worst of all the other animals you see
in the video footage
professor that animal had its eye stead
after its throat had been cut when it
was already down can you explain that
it seems seems unnecessary I just don't
see why it was done it would have caused
pain as we know from personal experience
the cornea is exquisitely sensitive
unfortunately the neck cut didn't work
thirty seconds later they had to repeat
the cut to kill the animal probably the
worst case of slaughter that I've ever
seen
you know I'm saying you know I'm just
keeping it real yeah just keeping it
real
I live with that kind of you know
uncertainty in my life um you know the
whole vegan diet it's a little bit of an
experiment the outcomes are a little bit
unknowable so yeah we can grow something
also he's going as a girlfriend who has
fairly similar views and I'm like men
recently I've felt like I'm dying like I
feel really sick lately and I feel even
more committed than ever to veganism if
my health would improve somewhat from
eating some amount of animal products
I'm not going to do that like what is my
life worth at this point like what is my
contribution going to be to the world I
think we can wrap you out there pretty
much I mean as she said sometimes she
feels like she's dying haha she feel
like she's dying
and you know the fair [ __ ] play to
her utmost respect to people that are
sacrificing their health knowingly
knowingly for the ethical cause and you
know up most respect but obviously I'm
my selfless as you let's start down in
the dirt here before we work our way up
the Beanstalk that matters a greater
profundity got a question and I've
already posted this on Twitter somebody
wrote in to ask me you will have been
asked questions like this yourself also
if you've been thinking for any length
of time quote what difference does it
make whether you buy or avoid a non
vegan bread from the supermarket if you
don't buy the bread someone else will
buy it and if not it will end up as
waste it will go into the garbage
correct me if I'm wrong but I think
supermarket managers don't decide to
lower the amount of bread they get based
on a single loaf of bread you didn't buy
so his point is what's the point what
use is it what's the outcome what is the
meaning
of refusing to buy a non-vegan loaf of
bread and insisting on only buying vegan
bread and of course by implication
what's the point of being vegan was the
point of maintaining a vegan diet um
before I read the answer that I sent to
this guy in text form let me just say
rhetoric gets a bad name a problem like
this is in part just a problem of
rhetoric how are we going to express
ourselves clearly how we're gonna
prepare ourselves mentally in discussing
this sort of problem which is going to
come up the question is not illegitimate
it's a question we as vegans should be
able to answer can you so I wrote back
if you've been a longtime viewer this
channel this won't surprise you you do
the right thing because it's the right
thing to do and because this is the kind
of person you want to be or this is the
kind of person you want to become and
for no other reason than that if there's
a line of cocaine on a nightclub table
I'm not going to inhale it and I'm not
going to regret that it may go to waste
in quotation marks go to waste
let it go into the garbage it belongs in
the garbage it is garbage same with meat
same with milk same with eggs quote what
difference does it make you ask the
difference is you the difference is what
kind of person you want to be I want to
be the kind of person who never uses
cocaine not even if it's free of charge
not even if it goes into the garbage can
period end of my reply I'll leave it
unstated obviously the point is I want
to be the kind of person who never eats
meat or who never eats dairy products
even if I can in some sense get away
with it even if it's otherwise free of
charge it's been given to me for free
even if this is the situation isn't the
particular circumstances if I don't eat
it somebody else will eat it or if I
don't eat it somebody else will put it
into a garbage can and it will quote
unquote
go to waste right my approach to
veganism is do it because it's the right
thing to do
ultimate product is not a bag of bread
on the shelf it's not a patch of forest
in Indonesia the ultimate product is you
this is about what kind of person you
want to be this is aspirational this is
about outcomes and consequences you can
control consequence being what kind of
person you are and the second premise
which is my premise implicitly and
explicitly is simply that being vegan
refusing a dairy is a necessary
precondition for the ethical and
ecological position you want to be in
impressing for political change and also
cultural change right if you are trying
to abolish slavery can you continue
owning slaves could you employ slaves in
the evolution of slavery that alone is a
necessary precondition for taking the
next steps in veganism that already is a
sufficient reason to be vegan most
vegans feel the same way that I do
nevertheless I notice the leader of the
Green Party of Canada eats meat and
supports the beef and dairy industry I
also think you'd be a bad person if you
used cocaine while trying to be an
ecological leader even though these
things are totally unrelated keeping all
the way real many of you in the audience
I think you believe that also you don't
want to elect a crack head you don't
want to be part of a political movement
led by a crack head even though there's
no direct ethical connection between
using cocaine and whatever whatever the
principles are that the Green Party may
be running for office on ok I am a vegan
for political reasons those reasons are
ecological ethical and health-related
but nevertheless it's a political cause
and I'm vegan for political purposes
long story short it's a political
identity likewise I refuse to use
cocaine because I don't want to be the
kind of person who uses cocaine my lunch
today consisted of absolutely nothing
but white rice and green vegetable
I think if I wasn't taking this vitamin
pill I like I have no pretensions that
this is a healthy or adequate or
complete diet you know it's really easy
to display a kind of false confidence
about these things
I'd much rather share my own sense of
honest uncertainty you know I live with
that uncertainty every day I live with
that difficulty I live with that
struggle
the fact that I can show you a website
with a professional athlete living in
California and say look at this
bodybuilder
he's on a vegan diet he's totally
healthy for one thing I don't know if
he's healthy I don't really know that
but I can look at a photograph of a
vegan bodybuilder but for another thing
I'm not living in California I'm not
that bodybuilder I'm not taking steroids
I'm not living his lifestyle currently
here in China I don't have access to
protein powder and I wish I did
you know so I'm just keeping it real my
lunch today consisted of absolutely
nothing but white rice and green
vegetable I do not want to compromise I
refuse to eat bread that has powdered
eggs in it I refuse to eat you know milk
products in cookies or bread or anything
else so you know that's it man that's
all I have to say is the struggle is
really people like to disrespect my
truth but the fact is that you know my
name is I don't know